PROJECT TITLE: WORLD TIMEZONE CONVERTER
MCIT 591 TEAM 14

TEAM & ASSOCIATED CONTRIBUTIONS:

Sai Merriam: Created all UI visual elements (basemap, pins, etc.) and led the team in learning JavaFX and bridging front-end UI code to back-end code. Sai played a major role in developing code for the zoom functions, time/date pickers, AutoCompleteComboBoxListener/Dropdown Menu, Waking Hours Filter, and Junit tests. She likewise developed the application demo video (see GitHub link below). Sai actively led the team during weekly Zoom coding sessions.

John Caton: Coordinated the development of JavaFX learning resources and assisted in the development of the DropDownMenu/AutoCompleteComboBoxListener, Waking Hours Filter, and PinConverter functions through weekly joint-coding sessions with teammates over Zoom. 

Chelsea Liu: Developed the TimeConverter Class, JUnit tests, and all supporting documents (e.g., ReadMe, CRC Cards, etc.). She actively coordinated with teammates over Zoom to assist in the development of the drop-down menu, time/date pickers, and Waking Hours Filter.


GITHUB LINK:

https://github.com/JohnC777/MCIT591_Timezone


PROJECT DESCRIPTION	

This project develops a User-Interfaced program which allows the user to convert a date and time from one timezone to another based on the selected locations. The user selects the “to” and “from” locations from an interactive drop down menu, which are then displayed on a world map. The user subsequently selects the date and time they wish to convert from a pop-up calendar and time spinner. The converted date are returned and displayed at the destination location on the world map. 

PROJECT MOTIVATION	

In this age of globalization, collaborating with colleagues from other regions and countries is not only of common occurrence but also inevitable, especially in large organizations and professional communities. This project provides a useful tool to simplify the process of coordinating meetings and events involving collaborators who are geographically located in different timezones. 

INNOVATION AND VALUES

How often do you find yourself Googling “what time is this in [another city]?” followed by reading a long conversion table provided by TimeBie (or other similar websites)? Our product from this project is specifically designed to streamline this process and offers a convenient solution to the everyday timezone-conversion problem that confronts everyone who works with remote collaborators. Apart from saving time and effort, the sophisticated and aesthetically attractive user interface further enhances the user experience. 

PROJECT SCOPE	

This project serves as a proof of concept for the Timezone Converter rather than its full implementation. The scope of the project is restricted to a small number of tester cities/locations, with a focus on the geographical locations of current students in the MCIT 591 Spring 2019 cohort. 

FEATURES

- Converts date and time from one city/location to other cities/locations. 
- Allows user to select “To” and “From” locations from a drop-down menu of major cities. 
- Displays pins representing cities/locations on a world map. 
- Displays the correct converted date and time on the city pins across the world map. 

SET-UP INSTRUCTIONS

Step 1: Create a New JavaFx Project in Eclipse (or other IDE). Ensure that the JavaFX SDK Library is added to the list of available Libraries: click “Add Library”, click JavaFx SDK in the pop-up window.

Step 2: Place all Files in the “application” folder of the new JavaFx Project. 

Step 3: Place all Supplementary Files into the “src” folder of the new JavaFx Project – at the same level as where the “application” folder is located. 

Step 4: Run “main.java” file.

HOW TO USE

Step 1: Use drop-down menu at the top of the screen to select the source and destination cities/locations that you would like to be displayed on the world map. 

Step 2: Zoom in and out on the world map using the + and - buttons. Reset the scale of the world map using the “reset” button. 

Step 3: Locate the city from which you wish to convert the date/time. Date Selection: use the Calendar to pick the local date to be converted. Time Selection: use the Spinner to input the local time to be converted. 

Step 4: Press Enter to see converted time and date displayed at the destination location(s). All cities displayed on the world map automatically update to display the converted time and date in their local timezones.

Step 5: Reset Cities on the map by clicking the “RESET” button at the top of the screen before restarting a new conversion.   

